---
layout: post
title: "Rest in Peace, my friend!"
excerpt: "Now the question is where is justice done? What we wanted was just justice for our brother who lost his life due to negligence of some higher authorities. The issue of the 10 degree leaning of the wall was even raised by the faculty just 3 months ago. Even after that also no action was taken. Is this too much to ask? Some of our seniors who fighted and leaded us from the beginning of the event are now the new victims. Our honorable hero has sent a clear message to all of us that nobody can touch him."
categories: [article]
tags: [nitc, rip, suspended]
comments: true
---

Monday morning me and my friend Kiran were going on a bike to Calicut Medical College to see our friend for the last time, though Kiran was driving the bike, I was sure so many things might also have went through his mind too, as I was simply not able to control my emotions. All the pain, confusion, frustration and anger were so high that I was feeling really bad. When I was small, I had seen my grandfather die in front of me due to heart attack. After that also I have seen many dead bodies of people I cared about. So I thought that I could be strong to see him.  

I have great respect for our Prof. Muralikrishnan sir, the way he teaches and the way he gets into the details of each topic and the clarity that he has of the subject matter. But when I saw him in the medical college, the respect doubled. Friends said he was there throughout the three days. I just couldn’t look at Venkat’s father though. He was crying and crying. His eyes were red and his face had become so small. Some of my friends told me that he just couldn’t take the agonizing pain and also tried to commit suicide. But by God’s grace, he recovered.
Then the mortuary staff came out holding the stretcher. And I saw Venkat lying covered with the white cloth and the whole environment went so strange. When I looked at his face suddenly a strange thought went through my mind like a lightning that it could have been me or my friend Kiran or Roshin or Ashwin or as matter of fact it could have been any NITCian. I thought why HIM? He was the first person from his village in Andhra Pradesh who dared to come out of his village for higher studies. His financial background is so bad that the whole village contributed to his studies. Now the people from his village will think twice before sending their sons and daughters for studies outside the village. Because of this tragic event not just the dreams of his parents but also the dreams of a whole village are lost. Sometimes life is **JUST NOT FAIR**

The question **_‘why him?_** ’ was really haunting me. He was a real good person. Not a single person he knew had anything bad to say about him. He was happy go lucky. He was just playing gali cricket with his friends with this squash/tennis practicing wall as the wicket. He was batting and he hit the ball, suddenly his friends noticed the wall falling. They shouted “the wall’s falling!” Two others who were standing close to him ran and were able to come out but he couldn’t. He had a small problem with his leg. He was physically disabled. So he couldn’t run fast. He only had his three fingers outside the fallen wall. If he could have managed to take two more steps he could have saved his life. Those who took him to the hospital said that he so badly smashed that they couldn’t hold him on their lap so they made him lie on the floor of the auto rickshaw that they had hired. Nobody deserves such a death.

>They shouted “the wall’s falling!” Two others who were standing close to him ran and were able to come out but he couldn’t.

## The Protest

The day when Venkat died all the students of NITC gathered in front of the person’s bungalow **“whose name shall not be taken”** asking for justice. Our student representatives and some good professors, who really cared about the students they teach, went and prepared a list of demands. Some of them were to met by Monday evening and result shall be reported to the students in meeting in the OAT (open air theater) same evening. From the medical college we went back to college. By the time all students were wearing black to show their sadness and were ready for a peaceful protest for justice. For our brother. Initially the person was not ready to talk to the students. Later he changed his mind. Then he changed the venue. Though the students were not happy about it but they were only there to get their demands satisfied, the venue didn’t matter. He just came and sat there and was not talking to students. Some of my friends who were there in the hospital for three days told me that they had not seen an inhuman person like him. They said he stood there in the corridor of mortuary for 3 hours and then went and sat in his AC car. But when his parents arrived He didn’t even come out of his car to talk to his parents.
The meeting started. Some of us expected, but to the surprise of large multitude a battalion of POLICE was called and they created a perimeter. But we were not scared. All NITCians had only one target in mind. And that ******* sat their laughing. We didn’t get what was so funny. Another couple of professors who in their RAGAM and TATHVA speeches addressed us as precious students were laughing and commenting bullshit on the spot of tragedy. These things led to great agitation among the students. He didn’t came to mic and address us. As the students booed and started shouting he picked his a** and said “students everything is resolved and tomorrow you all go to your classes”. That’s it. With all this the students started losing their patience. Then another professor as a representative started about the agendas that we had demanded 2 days back on the day when we gathered in front of his house. What we all NITCians wanted was the report of things done and how they are done and the deadline until when it will be done if they required more time. It’s as simple as that. For that they were just giving round round answers. Students were not satisfied. We were asking questions but they were not giving any direct and satisfactory answers. This continued for about 3 hours and only 3 out of 8 agendas were discussed and they went inside and locked themselves.

In that time some students party people came to take advantage of the situation. But to their surprise nobody moved. All NITCians knew what they wanted and what they stood for and worked for the last 3 days. So they went as they came. Some fool took a stone and threw at a window. It didn’t cause even a scratch to glass. But our “brave and courageous hero whose name shall not be taken” declared that the college was suspended for indefinite period. And the whole college was asked to leave the college within 12 hours.

Now the question is where is justice done? What we wanted was just justice for our brother who lost his life due to negligence of some higher authorities. The issue of the 10 degree leaning of the wall was even raised by the faculty just 3 months ago. Even after that also no action was taken. Is this too much to ask? Some of our seniors who fought and leaded us from the beginning of the event are now the new victims. Our honorable hero has sent a clear message to all of us that nobody can touch him. And he can suppress anyone with his political influence. Anyway who gives a f*** . His message to his people is “SCORE OR DIE SCORING”. But we NITCians have an answer for that and will be given soon.
